DESIGNDOCUMENT.md, before:

## Function
The purpose of this document is like most creative projects to help maintain a general feeling of what a developed world looks like and feels like. It will provide general guidelines of what is and isn't allowed in the world development and should be read primarily by only those looking to help develop the setting, and not those who wish to have the setting spoiled for them. If you do not wish to have the setting spoiled, this is the time to turn back. [Back to the Introduction](README.md)

This will be the only document in addition to the README, that will not be written in formatting for https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/, so /page breaks will not be mandatory, and additions will be heavily restricted to the Repository owners, and possibly additions via pull requests, though these will be heavily vetted.

This document is the guiding document to the rest, and changes here will change the flow and feel of the rest of the documents. Keeping them consistent with these guidelines is paramount, and as such pull requests that aid in this are muchly appreciated. Though like most pull requests these will be heavily vetted for inclusion in the history, and development of the World.

We are Tolkien, Not reliable Storytellers. Leave that to the DM's and players, we are here to give them something to work with.

# General Aesthetic
The Caverns of the Vaal is a High Fantasy setting set in a huge underground network of caves. It is inhabited by many familiar races from the D&D mythology, as well as a variety of races that are not from the mythology.

Commit message:

License Added:
More design document work.

DESIGNDOCUMENT.md, after:

## Function
The purpose of this document is like most creative projects to help maintain a general feeling of what a developed world looks like and feels like. It will provide general guidelines of what is and isn't allowed in the world development and should be read primarily by only those looking to help develop the setting, and not those who wish to have the setting spoiled for them. If you do not wish to have the setting spoiled, this is the time to turn back. [Back to the Introduction](README.md)

This will be the only document in addition to the README, that will not be written in formatting for https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/, so /page breaks will not be mandatory, and additions will be heavily restricted to the Repository owners, and possibly additions via pull requests, though these will be heavily vetted.

This document is the guiding document to the rest, and changes here will change the flow and feel of the rest of the documents. Keeping them consistent with these guidelines is paramount, and as such pull requests that aid in this are muchly appreciated. Though like most pull requests these will be heavily vetted for inclusion in the history, and development of the World.

We are Tolkien, Not reliable Storytellers. Leave that to the DM's and players, we are here to give them something to work with.

# General Aesthetic:
The Caverns of the Vaal is a High Fantasy setting set in a huge underground network of caves. It is inhabited by many familiar races from the D&D mythology, as well as a variety of races that are not from the mythology.

The overall feel of the world is one of mystery, as the various races have been very superstitious as to why the entire world is underground, and why the giant holes (Galadin) that allow the light into the caverns don't exist in every cavern, and why no-one who returns from attempting to venture into them, comes back sane or whole. Depending on how high they ascended into the Galadin, they return more and more sick, and even descending them back into the Vaal will cause partial symptoms.

## Definitions:

Galadin - The gigantic skies, or holes in the top of lighted Vaal, they can be a variety of sizes from holes a hundred feet across to hundreds of thousands. They allow light into the lighted Vaal, and is notably where most of the population of Siraga.

Siraga - The planet on which the Vaal reside, it is inhabited as far as we know only in the Vaal beneath it's surface. It's surface while being defined as existing is a mystery and is left such intentionally.

Vaal - The Large Caverns that exist on
