README.md, before:

# The Caverns of the Vaal
A DND 5th Edition OGL Campaign Setting, with open sourced development from the community.

# World Overview:

*Picture here eventually*

**WIP**

# Table of Contents
- [Git Overview](#Git-Overview)
  - [Goals](#Goals)
  - [Editions](#Editions)
  - [Contributions](#Contributions)
  - [Compiling](#Compiling)
  - [License](#License)

# Git Repository Overview

The Caverns of the Vaal is an OGL Campaign Setting as written by SaintFenix. It's meant to be used as a setting for D&D under the OGL license. This world setting has a variety of inspirations, and functions as a hobby for myself to add to as time goes on.

It will eventually in time include:
- A DM's Guide supplement for the D&D 5th DM Guide.
- A player's Guide supplement for the D&D 5th player's manual.
- A monster manual supplement for the D&D 5th Edition Monster Manual.
- A semi-comprehensive history of the setting.
- Various Campaigns for players to go through the setting with.

There will be little consistency to my additions and they may come in all at once or slowly over the months. However the Repo will grow with both original Art and more text as the setting is developed.

Should another edition of D&D come out, an attempt will be made to update this to that edition, pending OGL and SRD licensing for it.

## Goals

The Goal of the Repository is to establish around a several thousand year history of the Caverns of Vaal, the creation of several campaigns in the setting, as well as the smaller histories, linguistics, origins, families, and political intrigues of the Caverns of Vaal. The setting will never be considered to be complete, but will grow as is necessary and as portions of it are finished.

The Original spells, creatures, and races of the "Forgotten Realms" will be used for now, as it is developed. In time the setting will grow more and more into it's own. This also goes for spells, monsters, races, and deities of the realm.

It should be additionally noted that when possible, open-endedness as well as room to conjecture and modify should be preferred over closed stories. To allow GM's and players room to fill in their own campaigns and designs in the Caverns of the Vaal.

For a general idea of what the setting is supposed to feel like, please reference the Design Document:
[Design Document for the Caverns of the Vaal](DESIGNDOCUMENT.md)


 *If you would like to have some idea added to the setting, consider contributing, please read over the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)*

## Editions

Editions will be released from time to time, and will include another age in the history of the Vaal, from times when great empires exist, to times when most races are on the decline due to a catastrophic event, or otherwise. I am currently planning 5 editions, one for every 500 years of Vaal Prime history, there will be history outside of this, going back farther, but it will be incomplete, and not the subject of an edition release. Editions may contain new races, spells, or monsters exclusive or at least more common to that age, but will be compatible with the world at large.

Editions will experience point releases to fix glaring or lesser errors or continuity issues, and these will continue while work on New Editions is done.


## Contributions

 Pull requests are welcome, but subject to heavy scrutiny, as such unless the addition fits REALLY well with the setting, or points out obvious flaws in the writing, or contradictions, it may not be accepted. New contributors are always welcome, though I would suggest opening a small pull request first and discussing intended additions before writing the bulk of an addition before they are accepted. Language corrections or fixes for misspellings or grammatically incorrect passages or words, are always accepted.

 Art is always given a priority as well as I have limited artistic abilities, and would very much appreciate art donated to the project. Higher quality will be subjective and I reserve the right to chose the aesthetic that fits the theme of the story best. By this metric, pull requests with art will be more subjective, though more likely to be accepted.

 All contributions are required to fit within the [Design Document](DESIGNDOCUMENT.md).

 *If you would like to have some idea added to the setting, consider contributing, please read over the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)*

## Compiling

Due to the nature of this Repo not being actual code, the only real method to "compile" it would be to render it in the form with which was intended: D&D style pages as if this came out of the actual player and Dungeon Master Manuals. The method used will be via "The Homebrewery" located here: [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/).

The goal here is to make all pages fit as though they were natural in a D&D 5th edition style printing and all contributions will be expected to use this method. E.G. separating large paragraphs into small concise information and creating \Page demarcations at the end of every page. These can be checked on [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/) at any time to see what they look like.

Editions and Point releases will be released as PDFs exported from Homebrewery.

## License

[Also as it's own Document](LICENSE.md)

Open	Game	License	v	1.0a	Copyright	2000,	Wizards
of	the	Coast,	LLC.

System	Reference	Document	5.1 Copyright	2016,
Wizards	of	the	Coast,	Inc.;	Authors	Mike	Mearls,
Jeremy	Crawford,	Chris	Perkins,	Rodney	Thompson,
Peter	Lee,	James	Wyatt,	Robert	J.	Schwalb,	Bruce	R.
Cordell,	Chris	Sims,	and	Steve	Townshend,	based	on
original	material	by	E.	Gary	Gygax	and	Dave	Arneson.
END	OF	LICENSE

Commit message:

Added Compilation Steps:
and various other changes.

README.md, after:

# The Caverns of the Vaal
A DND 5th Edition OGL Campaign Setting, with open sourced development from the community.

# World Overview:

*Picture here eventually*

**WIP**

# Table of Contents
- [Git Overview](#Git-Overview)
  - [Goals](#Goals)
  - [Editions](#Editions)
  - [Contributions](#Contributions)
  - [Compiling](#Compiling)
  - [License](#License)

# Git Repository Overview

The Caverns of the Vaal is an OGL Campaign Setting as written by SaintFenix. It's meant to be used as a setting for D&D under the OGL license. This world setting has a variety of inspirations, and functions as a hobby for myself to add to as time goes on.

It will eventually in time include:
- A DM's Guide supplement for the D&D 5th DM Guide.
- A player's Guide supplement for the D&D 5th player's manual.
- A monster manual supplement for the D&D 5th Edition Monster Manual.
- A semi-comprehensive history of the setting.
- Various Campaigns for players to go through the setting with.

There will be little consistency to my additions and they may come in all at once or slowly over the months. However the Repo will grow with both original Art and more text as the setting is developed.

Should another edition of D&D come out, an attempt will be made to update this to that edition, pending OGL and SRD licensing for it.

## Goals

The Goal of the Repository is to establish around a several thousand year history of the Caverns of Vaal, the creation of several campaigns in the setting, as well as the smaller histories, linguistics, origins, families, and political intrigues of the Caverns of Vaal. The setting will never be considered to be complete, but will grow as is necessary and as portions of it are finished.

The Original spells, creatures, and races of the "Forgotten Realms" will be used for now, as it is developed. In time the setting will grow more and more into it's own. This also goes for spells, monsters, races, and deities of the realm.

It should be additionally noted that when possible, open-endedness as well as room to conjecture and modify should be preferred over closed stories. To allow GM's and players room to fill in their own campaigns and designs in the Caverns of the Vaal.

For a general idea of what the setting is supposed to feel like, please reference the Design Document:
[Design Document for the Caverns of the Vaal](DESIGNDOCUMENT.md)


 *If you would like to have some idea added to the setting, consider contributing, please read over the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)*

## Editions

Editions will be released from time to time, and will include another age in the history of the Vaal, from times when great empires exist, to times when most races are on the decline due to a catastrophic event, or otherwise. I am currently planning 5 editions, one for every 500 years of Vaal Prime history, there will be history outside of this, going back farther, but it will be incomplete, and not the subject of an edition release. Editions may contain new races, spells, or monsters exclusive or at least more common to that age, but will be compatible with the world at large.

Editions will experience point releases to fix glaring or lesser errors or continuity issues, and these will continue while work on New Editions is done.


## Contributions

 Pull requests are welcome, but subject to heavy scrutiny, as such unless the addition fits REALLY well with the setting, or points out obvious flaws in the writing, or contradictions, it may not be accepted. New contributors are always welcome, though I would suggest opening a small pull request first and discussing intended additions before writing the bulk of an addition before they are accepted. Language corrections or fixes for misspellings or grammatically incorrect passages or words, are always accepted.

 Art is always given a priority as well as I have limited artistic abilities, and would very much appreciate art donated to the project. Higher quality will be subjective and I reserve the right to chose the aesthetic that fits the theme of the story best. By this metric, pull requests with art will be more subjective, though more likely to be accepted.

 All contributions are required to fit within the [Design Document](DESIGNDOCUMENT.md).

 *If you would like to have some idea added to the setting, consider contributing, please read over the [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)*

## Compiling

Due to the nature of this Repo not being actual code, the only real method to "compile" it would be to render it in the form with which was intended: D&D style pages as if this came out of the actual player and Dungeon Master Manuals. The method used will be via "The Homebrewery" located here: [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/).

The goal here is to make all pages fit as though they were natural in a D&D 5th edition style printing and all contributions will be expected to use this method. E.G. separating large paragraphs into small concise information and creating \Page demarcations at the end of every page. These can be checked on [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/) at any time to see what they look like.

Editions and Point releases will be released as PDFs exported from Homebrewery.

**If you wish to compile your own release, here is the process:**

**Requirements:**

- `git`
- `Google Chrome` - or a variation of this browser such as: [List of Chromium Based Browsers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromium_(web_browser)#Browsers_based_on_Chromium)  Although Chrome and Chromium of the latest versions are preferred.
- ` A text editor` - Something you can easily copy and paste in and out of.
- `A PDF Program that can merge PDFs` - `PDFtoolkit` is free, Adobe Acrobat can also do this. `PDF Toolkit +` is a paid app on MacOS, though `PDFtk-java` through homebrew is command line only and free.

**Steps:**

1. Git clone the repository `git clone https://github.com/SaintFenix/Caverns-of-the-Vaal.git` 'or' use this link to download it as a zip: https://github.com/SaintFenix/Caverns-of-the-Vaal/archive/master.zip
2. Open `Google Chrome` - and navigate to the [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/)
3. Open each individual page from each book or campaign and copy and past them in order on the [Homebrewery](https://homebrewery.naturalcrit.com/). Make sure to add a new line between each page. (Press Enter!)
4. Once all of the pages in that folder are placed, check the alignment, and adjust as necessary, this should usually be either perfect, or just one or two new lines. (Pressing enter!)
5. Once these are lined up, export via PDF on the Homebrewery.
6. Lastly the created PDF's need to be combined, these can be combined using `PDFtk` from the Linux or windows Command line, or from a GUI version of it's program `PDFtoolkit` that will run on both Windows and Linux. MacOS user's can use either `PDF Toolkit +` through the Mac app store, or `PDFtk-java` installed via [brew](https://brew.sh/).

## License

[Also as it's own Document](LICENSE.md)

Open	Game	License	v	1.0a	Copyright	2000,	Wizards
of	the	Coast,	LLC.

System	Reference	Document	5.1 Copyright	2016,
Wizards	of	the	Coast,	Inc.;	Authors	Mike	Mearls,
Jeremy	Crawford,	Chris	Perkins,	Rodney	Thompson,
Peter	Lee,	James	Wyatt,	Robert	J.	Schwalb,	Bruce	R.
Cordell,	Chris	Sims,	and	Steve	Townshend,	based	on
original	material	by	E.	Gary	Gygax	and	Dave	Arneson.
END	OF	LICENSE
